So let's compare some
web component libraries.
This question has come up.
But let's just look at them and
see the shape of them, and
maybe understand the differences, maybe.
I'm not gonna go through all 61.
We could, I guess.
But [LAUGH] we're gonna
have to pay more for
our Frontend Masters subscriptions,
but we'll look at some of this here.
We've kind of been staring at Lit, and
we'll actually show
a bunch more Lit examples.
So this will be kinda,
it'll get almost old to you at some point,
but this would be a classic but
encounter, right,
increment, decrement, and
you render the HTML at the bottom, right?
So and then this is kind
of a custom directive, and
it calls these things, yeah, okay, right?
Pretty familiar shape,
not too different than React, I'd say, or
kind of a React and Vue hybrid.
Speaking of hybrids,
[LAUGH] here's one called hybrids.
And this one is really interesting.
When I first saw it, it gave me
sort of Svelte vibes when I saw it.
It has a render function that uses
the HTML tag template literals.
But it has just a bit more, I don't know,
functional programming aspect to it,
right?
So that's good.
Lit can be functional too, but this
would be kinda just an example of that.
Stencil.js, which powers
the Ionic framework is very cool.
But it's got these JavaScript decorators,
not officially a feature,
but it's coming soon.
But they're leveraging that, so
you're gonna have some transpiling sorta
thing happen, but
looks like they're also using TypeScript.
So kind of future TypeScript
stuff going on here, but
it's pretty nice,
it gives me kind of Angular vibes.
If you've used Angular,
I hope that's not a slight, but
just more of the strong typed way of
programming, so that's the vibe I get.
But one neat thing about Stencil,
it has a superpower.
I haven't messed with it,
but I've heard about it.
Stencil's kind of designed to actually
transpile to different frameworks as well.
So if you need to turn this into
a React component, you can do that.
Or if you need to turn
this into a Vue component,
I think there's tooling in
place to bridge that gap.
So that's kind of a neat thing
that you may wanna check out.
Again, your mileage may vary,
but I was told it existed.
Now, Haunted,
Haunted is maybe my favorite.
It's Lit with hooks.
So it's kind of the React
hooks sort of look,
shape to a web component, and
I actually like this quite a bit.
[LAUGH] I like hooks, but I don't use
React, so this would be a great chance for
me to use hooks more often,
so pretty interesting.
But wait, there's more,
there's always more.
You may not even have to switch JavaScript
frameworks to use web components.
If you already have something in Vue,
or Svelte, or Preactor,
Angular, or something,
you might be able to take that code and
spit out a web component, as well as
use web components, kind of cool.
So let's take a look at
what that looks like.
Svelte is maybe the easiest.
[LAUGH] You just write the code,
and then at the top,
you say <svelte:options
tag="my-counter" />.
And Svelt's compiler, or
commandline tool figures out the rest,
and spits out a custom
component from this.
Looking at that, all the ways
to make a web component [LAUGH],
looking at that, Svelte comes
in at kinda one of the smallest.
So Svelte may be one of the best
ways to make a web component,
who knows, depending on how you
measure that, but pretty cool.
Vue is kind of in this class of,
they have a function called
defineCustomElement.
And it's basically a wrapper, so
you'd import your counter from Vue.
It's just a Vue component
that looks like this.
But then your
customElements.define("my-counter",
defineCustomElement(MyCounter));, really
verbose.
But basically,
you use this Vue function to spit
out a web component from view, okay?
So this might be a good way if
you have a system in Vue, and
somebody's WordPress blog really
wants to use those components, but
you don't wanna put Vue in
front of the WordPress blog.
Maybe you can use this to offer
a alternate version of your
existing system and
provide some some components.
Your mileage may vary in production,
but it works,
it's supported, and they score good
on that custom elements everywhere.
Preact, sort of the same thing,
has a createCustomElement.
You'll notice it's not using JSX,
it's using the HTML from htm/preact.
So again,
another sorta tag template literal.
And then you
customElements.define("my-counter",
createCustomElement(MyCounter,
["count"]));.
I think that's you have to put in
the props that it's gonna watch, and
stuff like that.
So all right, cool.
There is one holdout,
this question came up.
Notably, React is not being
offered here in this course,
but the React situation is getting better.
And according to custom elements, and
there's an experimental branch of
React that should hit in React 19.
React 18 just came out at
the time of this talk.
But React 19, in theory,
is gonna get support for
custom elements and web components.
So could be an exciting time where you're
able to export components from React,
and you're able to import
web components into React.
So everything you learn here today,
or in this course,
could actually work in your React
project in a year's time or something.